Lab 06 - Method-Based Access Control Can Be Circumvented
Objective
Exploit flawed method-based access controls to promote the user wiener to an administrator.

Background
Web applications use HTTP methods (also called HTTP verbs) to indicate the action a client wants to perform.

Common HTTP methods include:

Method	Purpose
GET	Retrieve data
POST	Submit/Create data
PUT	Replace existing data
PATCH	Modify existing data
DELETE	Delete data
HEAD	Retrieve headers only
OPTIONS	Discover supported methods
Access control should never depend on the HTTP method used to access a resource.

Authorization should be enforced regardless of whether the request is sent using GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, or DELETE.

If authorization is only checked for certain HTTP methods, attackers may bypass access controls simply by changing the request method.

Vulnerability
Method-Based Access Control Bypass

The application only enforced administrator authorization for POST requests.

When the same functionality was accessed using a GET request, the authorization check was skipped, allowing a normal user to perform an administrator-only action.

Initial Reconnaissance
The lab provided two accounts:

Administrator:

administrator
admin
Normal User:

wiener
peter
The administrator account was used to observe how the application normally performs user promotion.

Administrator Request
While logged in as the administrator, promoting a user generated the following request:

POST /admin-roles HTTP/2

username=carlos&action=upgrade
Request analysis:

Component	Value
Method	POST
Endpoint	/admin-roles
Parameter	username
Action	upgrade
This request upgrades the specified user to an administrator.

Testing as a Normal User
The same request was replayed using Wiener's session cookie.

POST /admin-roles HTTP/2

username=wiener&action=upgrade
Response:

401 Unauthorized
This confirmed that the application blocked unauthorized POST requests.

Investigating the HTTP Method
Since the lab title suggested a method-based vulnerability, the HTTP method was changed.

Original request:

POST /admin-roles
Modified request:

GET /admin-roles?username=wiener&action=upgrade HTTP/2
The POST body parameters were moved into the URL query string because GET requests do not normally contain a request body.

Successful Exploitation
The modified request was accepted.

The user wiener was successfully promoted to an administrator.

The lab was solved.

Why the Attack Worked
The application enforced authorization only for POST requests.

Simplified vulnerable logic:

if(request.method == "POST"){
    if(!currentUser.isAdmin()){
        return 401;
    }
}

upgradeUser(username);
When the attacker changed the request to GET, the authorization check was skipped while the role upgrade functionality was still executed.

Attack Flow
Normal User
      │
      ▼
POST /admin-roles
      │
Authorization Check
      │
401 Unauthorized
↓

Attacker changes only the HTTP method

↓

Normal User
      │
      ▼
GET /admin-roles
      │
No Authorization Check
      │
User Upgraded
Root Cause
The application incorrectly tied authorization checks to a specific HTTP method instead of protecting the functionality itself.

Authorization should protect the resource regardless of how it is accessed.

Impact
If exploited in a real-world application, an attacker could:

Promote themselves to administrator
Modify user roles
Delete users
Access administrator functionality
Perform privileged administrative actions
This vulnerability can result in complete privilege escalation.

Prevention
Perform authorization checks for every request.
Never depend on the HTTP method for security.
Protect resources, not request methods.
Ensure all supported HTTP methods enforce identical authorization logic.
Disable unsupported HTTP methods where possible.
Burp Suite Skills Practiced
Proxy
HTTP History
Repeater
HTTP Method Manipulation
Parameter Manipulation
Response Analysis
Key Learning Points
Authorization should never depend on the HTTP method.
Changing GET to POST (or vice versa) should never bypass security.
Always inspect administrator requests before attempting exploitation.
Test whether an endpoint behaves differently when using different HTTP methods.
A single change to the request method can expose serious authorization flaws.
Pentester's Perspective
Whenever you encounter an endpoint returning:

401 Unauthorized
or

403 Forbidden
ask yourself:

Does the application behave differently with another HTTP method?
Are authorization checks consistent across GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, DELETE, and HEAD?
Can POST parameters be moved into the URL as GET parameters?
Does the server process the request differently depending on the method?
Changing the HTTP method is a simple but effective test during web application penetration testing. Although not as common as IDOR vulnerabilities, method-based authorization flaws can lead to critical privilege escalation when developers incorrectly associate security checks with specific HTTP methods.

MITRE ATT&CK Mapping
Tactic

Privilege Escalation
Technique

Exploitation of Misconfigured Access Controls
OWASP Top 10 Mapping
A01:2021 – Broken Access Control
Lab Status
✅ Solved
