Lab 08 - User ID Controlled by Request Parameter with Unpredictable User IDs
Objective
Exploit a horizontal privilege escalation vulnerability by discovering Carlos's GUID (Globally Unique Identifier), accessing his account, and retrieving his API key.

Background
Many applications replace predictable identifiers (such as usernames or numeric IDs) with randomly generated values like UUIDs or GUIDs.

Example:

/my-account?id=5d8fae32-b6fc-41f5-9d8d-6ef2b5ef3f65
Developers often assume that because these identifiers cannot be guessed, users cannot access other accounts.

However, unpredictable identifiers are not an access control mechanism. If the application exposes these identifiers elsewhere, an attacker can still obtain them and exploit missing authorization checks.

Vulnerability
Horizontal Privilege Escalation (IDOR)

The application relied solely on a user-controlled GUID to determine which account should be displayed.

Although the identifier was difficult to guess, it was publicly exposed through another part of the application.

The server failed to verify whether the authenticated user was authorized to access the requested account.

Initial Observation
Logged in using:

Username: wiener
Password: peter
Visited:

My Account
Observed a URL similar to:

/my-account?id=invj04bfn...
Unlike the previous lab, usernames were replaced with random-looking identifiers.

Direct guessing was no longer practical.

Reconnaissance
The first objective was to discover whether the application exposed user identifiers elsewhere.

Browsed the public blog.

Opened several blog posts.

Observed that posts displayed the author's name.

Clicked on the author Carlos.

The application opened Carlos's public profile page.

The URL contained Carlos's GUID.

This demonstrated that the supposedly "secret" identifier was publicly accessible.

Methodology
Step 1 – Obtain Your Own GUID
Logged into the account page and observed the GUID in the URL.

Example:

/my-account?id=<your-guid>
Step 2 – Search for Carlos
Browsed public blog posts.

Located a post written by Carlos.

Clicked Carlos's username.

Step 3 – Discover Carlos's GUID
Carlos's public profile page exposed his GUID.

This GUID was copied for further testing.

Step 4 – Modify the Request
Changed the account URL from:

/my-account?id=<your-guid>
to

/my-account?id=<carlos-guid>
Step 5 – Observe the Response
The server returned Carlos's account information, including:

Username
Email
API Key
No authorization checks were performed.

Step 6 – Submit Solution
Copied Carlos's API key.

Submitted it to complete the lab.

Why the Attack Worked
The application believed that using unpredictable identifiers was sufficient protection.

Internally, the logic resembled:

user = database.find(request.GET["id"])
show_account(user)
The server never verified whether the authenticated user actually owned the requested account.

A secure implementation would include an authorization check such as:

user = database.find(request.GET["id"])

if user != session.user:
    return 403

show_account(user)
Attack Flow
Attacker
      │
Discovers Carlos's GUID
      │
Changes URL
      │
GET /my-account?id=<Carlos_GUID>
      │
Server trusts GUID
      │
No ownership verification
      │
Carlos's account displayed
Root Cause
The application treated an unpredictable identifier as if it were an authorization mechanism.

The GUID only made guessing more difficult.

It did not verify ownership of the requested resource.

Impact
Successful exploitation may expose:

API Keys
Personal information
Customer accounts
Financial records
Medical data
Private documents
Internal resources
If sensitive operations are available, attackers may also modify or delete another user's data.

Prevention
Never rely on unpredictable IDs for security.
Perform server-side authorization checks on every request.
Verify resource ownership before returning data.
Use authenticated session information whenever possible.
Treat GUIDs only as identifiers, not as access control.
Burp Suite Skills Practiced
Reconnaissance
URL Analysis
Parameter Manipulation
Access Control Testing
Key Learning Points
Random identifiers are not security controls.
Hidden identifiers are frequently leaked elsewhere in an application.
Authorization must be enforced regardless of how unpredictable an identifier appears.
IDOR vulnerabilities remain exploitable even when GUIDs are used.
Pentester's Perspective
When testing applications that use UUIDs or GUIDs, never assume they cannot be exploited.

Always search for identifier leakage in:

Public profiles
Blog authors
Comments
API responses
JavaScript files
HTML source
Network traffic
Search functionality
If another user's identifier can be discovered anywhere, immediately test whether it can be used to access protected resources.

This is one of the most common real-world IDOR scenarios.

MITRE ATT&CK Mapping
Tactic

Collection
Privilege Escalation
Technique

Exploitation of Broken Access Control
OWASP Top 10 Mapping
A01:2021 – Broken Access Control
Lab Status
✅ Solved
