Lab 12 - Multi-Step Process with No Access Control on One Step
Objective
Exploit a flawed multi-step role upgrade process to promote the low-privileged user (wiener) to an administrator.

Background
The application allows administrators to promote users through a multi-step workflow.

The process includes:

Initiating a role upgrade.
Confirming the action.
Updating the user's role.
The vulnerability exists because one step in the workflow lacks proper authorization checks.

Vulnerability
Broken Access Control – Multi-Step Process

The application enforced authorization on one step of the workflow but failed to enforce it on another.

An attacker could bypass the intended confirmation process and directly invoke the vulnerable step.

Reconnaissance
Logged in as:

administrator : admin
Observed the promotion workflow.

The role upgrade consisted of:

GET /admin
↓

POST /admin-roles
The POST request contained:

action=upgrade
confirmed=true
username=carlos
Initial Testing
Replayed the complete POST request as Wiener.

Response:

401 Unauthorized
This confirmed that the fully confirmed request was protected.

Exploitation
The request was modified by removing the confirmation parameter:

action=upgrade
username=wiener
The application processed the request successfully and promoted the low-privileged account to administrator.

Why the Attack Worked
The application trusted the client-side workflow.

Although the confirmation step enforced authorization, the earlier stage failed to verify whether the requester was an administrator.

The server accepted the role upgrade request without performing a proper authorization check.

Attack Flow
Administrator Workflow

GET /admin
      │
      ▼
POST /admin-roles
action=upgrade
confirmed=true
username=carlos

──────────────────────────

Attacker

POST /admin-roles
action=upgrade
username=wiener

↓

Application updates role
without verifying privileges.
Root Cause
Authorization was enforced inconsistently across a multi-step workflow.

Each endpoint relied on assumptions about previous steps instead of validating permissions independently.

Impact
An attacker can:

Escalate privileges.
Gain administrator access.
Bypass business logic.
Perform privileged administrative actions.
Prevention
Perform authorization checks on every request.
Never rely on client-side workflow enforcement.
Do not trust hidden form fields or confirmation parameters.
Validate user permissions immediately before executing privileged actions.
Burp Suite Skills Practiced
HTTP History
Repeater
Workflow Analysis
Request Modification
Business Logic Testing
Key Learning Points
Multi-step workflows require authorization at every step.
Attackers interact directly with endpoints instead of using the UI.
Hidden parameters should never determine authorization.
Business logic flaws are often caused by incorrect trust assumptions.
Pentester's Perspective
Whenever you encounter a multi-step workflow, ask:

Can I skip a step?
Can I replay only the final request?
Can I remove confirmation parameters?
Does every endpoint verify authorization independently?
Many privilege escalation vulnerabilities arise because developers secure the interface rather than the underlying API.

MITRE ATT&CK Mapping
Tactic

Privilege Escalation
Technique

Exploitation of Broken Access Control
OWASP Top 10 Mapping
A01:2021 – Broken Access Control
Lab Status
✅ Solved
