Lab 10 - User ID Controlled by Request Parameter with Password Disclosure
Objective
Exploit an access control vulnerability to retrieve the administrator's password and use it to log in as the administrator and delete Carlos.

Background
The application allowed users to edit their account details.

The account page included an update password form where the existing password was pre-filled inside an HTML password input.

Although browsers mask password fields, the actual password remained visible inside the HTML source.

Vulnerability
Horizontal Privilege Escalation + Password Disclosure

The application exposed another user's existing password by pre-populating a password field after an authorization bypass.

Initial Observation
Logged in as:

Username: wiener
Password: peter
Visited:

/my-account?id=wiener
Observed:

<input
type="password"
name="password"
value="peter">
The browser displayed masked characters, but the actual password was present inside the HTML.

Methodology
Step 1 – Analyze Account Page
Observed that the password update form contained the current password inside the HTML.

Step 2 – Access Administrator's Account
Identified an access control weakness allowing access to the administrator's account page.

Step 3 – Inspect HTML
The administrator's password field contained:

<input
type="password"
name="password"
value="zb7t0rlo4nlsnb3fuj4w">
The password was disclosed inside the HTML response.

Step 4 – Authenticate as Administrator
Used the disclosed password to log in as the administrator.

Step 5 – Delete Carlos
Visited the admin panel.

Deleted the user Carlos.

Lab solved successfully.

Why the Attack Worked
The application stored and returned the user's existing password inside the HTML form.

After bypassing access control, another user's password became visible.

The application should never send existing passwords back to the client.

Root Cause
Two security failures combined:

Broken Access Control (IDOR)
Password Disclosure
Passwords were treated as retrievable data rather than secrets.

Impact
An attacker could obtain another user's password and:

Log into their account
Access private information
Escalate privileges
Reuse passwords on other services (credential stuffing)
This is significantly more severe than simply leaking an API key.

Prevention
Never store reversible passwords.
Store only salted password hashes.
Never pre-fill password fields.
Require users to enter a new password when changing it.
Perform authorization checks before rendering account pages.
Burp Suite Skills Practiced
Repeater
HTML Inspection
Response Analysis
Access Control Testing
Key Learning Points
type="password" only hides characters visually.
Password fields should never contain existing passwords.
Sensitive secrets should never be sent back to the client.
Access control flaws become far more dangerous when combined with information disclosure.
Pentester's Perspective
Whenever you encounter password update forms:

Inspect the HTML source.
Check for a value= attribute.
Verify whether another user's account page can be accessed.
Remember that masking is not encryption.
This combination of IDOR and password disclosure can lead directly to full account compromise.

MITRE ATT&CK Mapping
Tactic

Credential Access
Privilege Escalation
Technique

Valid Accounts
Exploitation of Broken Access Control
OWASP Top 10 Mapping
A01:2021 – Broken Access Control
A02:2021 – Cryptographic Failures
Lab Status
✅ Solved
