Lab 11 - Insecure Direct Object References (Static File Access)
Objective
Exploit an Insecure Direct Object Reference (IDOR) vulnerability to retrieve Carlos's password from a chat transcript and log in as Carlos.

Background
The application provides a live chat feature.

When a chat session ends, the transcript is saved directly on the server's file system and made available for download.

Instead of using secure authorization checks, the application retrieves transcripts using predictable static filenames.

Vulnerability
Insecure Direct Object Reference (IDOR) – Static File Access

The application exposed chat transcripts using sequential filenames such as:

/download-transcript/1.txt
The server did not verify whether the authenticated user owned the requested transcript.

Initial Observation
Started a live chat session.

After ending the conversation, selected:

View transcript
Burp Suite captured a request similar to:

GET /download-transcript/5.txt
The transcript was downloaded as a plain text file.

Methodology
Step 1 – Capture Transcript Request
Observed the request:

GET /download-transcript/5.txt
The filename appeared predictable.

Step 2 – Test File Enumeration
Modified the filename in Burp Repeater:

5.txt
↓

4.txt
3.txt
2.txt
1.txt
Existing files returned:

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Non-existent files returned:

HTTP/1.1 404 Not Found
This confirmed that transcript filenames were sequential and accessible.

Step 3 – Inspect Other Users' Transcripts
Reviewed the contents of the accessible transcript files.

Transcript 1.txt contained a conversation involving Carlos.

The conversation revealed Carlos's password.

Step 4 – Authenticate as Carlos
Logged into the application using:

Username: carlos
Password: Retrieved from 1.txt
The lab was successfully solved.

Why the Attack Worked
The application directly trusted the filename supplied in the request.

It only verified whether the requested file existed.

It never verified whether the authenticated user was authorized to access that transcript.

Attack Flow
Attacker
     │
Downloads own transcript
     │
Observes filename
     │
Enumerates:
1.txt
2.txt
3.txt
4.txt
     │
Server returns files
without ownership checks
     │
Reads Carlos's transcript
     │
Obtains password
Root Cause
The application used predictable object references (filenames) without enforcing authorization.

Authorization should be based on resource ownership, not merely file existence.

Impact
Successful exploitation may expose:

Customer support conversations
Passwords
Personal information
Internal discussions
API keys
Financial information
Medical records
If sensitive information is disclosed, attackers may gain unauthorized access to user accounts.

Prevention
Verify ownership before serving any file.
Avoid predictable sequential filenames.
Use random, unguessable identifiers where appropriate.
Store metadata linking each file to its owner.
Perform server-side authorization checks for every file request.
Burp Suite Skills Practiced
HTTP History
Repeater
URL Manipulation
File Enumeration
Response Analysis
Key Learning Points
IDOR vulnerabilities are not limited to URL parameters.
Files on a server are also objects.
Predictable filenames combined with missing authorization checks lead to information disclosure.
Always inspect downloadable resources for enumeration opportunities.
Pentester's Perspective
Whenever an application allows file downloads, ask:

Are filenames predictable?
Can I change the filename?
Does the server verify ownership?
Can I enumerate other users' files?
Many real-world vulnerabilities arise from direct access to documents, images, chat logs, invoices, or reports stored on disk without proper authorization.

MITRE ATT&CK Mapping
Tactic

Collection
Credential Access
Technique

Exploitation of Broken Access Control
OWASP Top 10 Mapping
A01:2021 – Broken Access Control
Lab Status
✅ Solved
