Lab 09 - User ID Controlled by Request Parameter with Data Leakage in Redirect
Objective
Exploit an access control vulnerability where sensitive information is leaked inside the body of a redirect response to obtain Carlos's API key.

Background
Some applications attempt to prevent unauthorized access by redirecting users away from protected resources.

However, if sensitive information is generated before the redirect is issued, that information may still be included in the HTTP response body.

Browsers automatically follow redirects, hiding the intermediate response from users.

Intercepting proxies like Burp Suite reveal the complete response before the redirect is processed.

Vulnerability
Information Disclosure through Redirect (IDOR + Data Leakage)

The application attempted to enforce authorization using a redirect.

Although the browser displayed only the redirected page, the server included Carlos's account information in the body of the 302 response.

Initial Observation
Logged in using:

Username: wiener
Password: peter
Observed the account URL:

/my-account?id=wiener
Methodology
Step 1 – Capture the Request
Visited My Account.

Sent the request to Burp Repeater.

Step 2 – Modify the Identifier
Changed:

id=wiener
to:

id=carlos
Step 3 – Analyze the Response
The server returned:

HTTP/1.1 302 Found
along with a Location header redirecting the browser.

Instead of stopping at the status code, inspected the response body.

Step 4 – Discover Information Leakage
Although the response was a redirect, the HTML body contained Carlos's:

Username
Email
API Key
The browser automatically followed the redirect, hiding this intermediate response.

Burp Suite exposed the leaked information.

Step 5 – Submit Solution
Copied Carlos's API key from the response body.

Submitted the key to complete the lab.

Why the Attack Worked
The application generated Carlos's account page before performing the authorization check.

Only after generating the response did it issue a redirect.

Sensitive data was therefore transmitted inside the HTTP response body.

Root Cause
Authorization was enforced too late in the request lifecycle.

The application should verify permissions before retrieving or rendering protected data.

Impact
An attacker can obtain sensitive information despite being redirected, including:

API keys
User profiles
Personal information
Internal data
Authentication tokens
Prevention
Perform authorization checks before generating any sensitive content.
Avoid including confidential data in redirect responses.
Return only the minimum required information in unauthorized responses.
Test raw HTTP responses during security reviews.
Burp Suite Skills Practiced
Repeater
HTTP Response Analysis
Redirect Inspection
Raw HTTP Analysis
Key Learning Points
Redirects do not guarantee security.
Browsers hide intermediate responses.
Burp Suite reveals everything transmitted over HTTP.
Always inspect response bodies, even for 3xx status codes.
Pentester's Perspective
Never assume a redirect means the request failed securely.

Always inspect the complete raw response. Sensitive information can be leaked before the browser follows the redirect, making this a common source of information disclosure during penetration tests.

MITRE ATT&CK Mapping
Tactic

Collection
Privilege Escalation
Technique

Exploitation of Broken Access Control
OWASP Top 10 Mapping
A01:2021 – Broken Access Control
Lab Status
✅ Solved
